# Authorship-Identification-Using-Bidirectional-LSTM

Authorship identification is the process of identifying the author of a piece of text using various Natural Language Processing methods. The process involves decoding the pattern and style of writing of an author and using that to identify the original author. The writing style is to an extent irrelevant to the topics in question but the style helps distinguish one author from another by a human reader. With its help, we can identify the author of a text, article, or news and it can help us detect plagiarism, literary theft and identify anonymous authors to help researchers with attributions.  One of the applications of author identification is to match an anonymous text with its potential author. It can also be used to detect plagiarism and resolve the rising threat to writing posed by AI systems like the latest ChatGPT. Researchers will benefit by being able to identify and cite text from unknown sources.

This was my final project to defend my graduate degree at Duke University and a part of ECE 684: Natural Language Processing. I created a custom dataset for the project using the Gutenberg project by scraping text from 18 books written by 12 authors, with a maximum of 3 books per author. Another dataset I used to train and test my model was the Reuters 50-50 dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. After comparing and contrasting the performance of the generative probabilistic model and discriminative neural network model on Reuters 50 50 and Gutenberg datasets, I observed that Article level LSTM performs the best on authorship identification with an accuracy of 68.8\% and 79.28\% on Reuters 50 50 and Gutenberg dataset respectively. 

